Welcome back.
So we have segmented our data successfully.
Now let's analyze the results we'll start by adding the clustering results to our data.
First we'll make a copy of our segmentation data frame and name it D F segmentation k means let's add
a new column called segment k means it will contain the predicted clusters for each observation in our
dataset.
In case you're wondering the predictions can be extracted from the labels attribute.
With this information we will endeavor to comprehend what the different clusters mean.
In other words what the characteristics of the people in each of the clusters are to gain some insight
will calculate the mean values of each features by clusters and to help us with that.
We will use the group by method let's type data frames segmentation K Means grouped by brackets as a
first argument we must indicate the column which we want to group by.
So segment K Means now let's calculate the mean super here's the result.
Now we've obtained the means for the clusters found by our K Means algorithm.
It's time to interpret them logically.
We start with the first segment it is composed of men and women almost equally with an average age of
56.
Comparing this mean age with the other clusters we realize that this is the oldest segment more than
two thirds are in relationships and they also have the highest level of education as well as the highest
income.
We could call this segment well-off people note that it is crucial to name our segments.
This allows us to understand them and to be able to talk about them and make different assumptions even
better.
Other people can easily comprehend what the numbers mean without any modelling background.
OK what about the second segment.
Two thirds are male and almost all are single.
Their average age is 36 years.
Their education level is low on average compared to other segments in terms of salary and jobs.
This segment has the lowest values under 100000 for annual salary.
Also they live almost exclusively in small cities.
So these are people in their thirties with a relatively low income living in small cities.
It seems that this is the segment of people with fewer opportunities.
Let's label it like that OK let's carry on with the third segment.
These are people in relationships with an average age of 29.
This is the youngest segment.
They have a medium level of education average income and middle management jobs.
They seem equally distributed between small mid-sized and big cities.
So they seem average in just about every parameter.
We can label the segment average or standard.
Finally we come to the fourth segment.
It is comprised almost entirely of men.
Less than 20 percent of whom are in relationships.
Looking at the numbers we observe relatively low values for education paired with high values for income
and occupation.
The majority of this segment lives in big or middle sized cities.
It appears people in this segment are career focused.
Let's label the segment accordingly.
Great job.
We have successfully named the clusters.
A cluster may be named in many different ways.
What is important is to use a clear descriptive phrase that we can use as a reference.
All right.
Let's see the size of the clusters and their proportions compared to the entire dataset.
Let's make a new column in a data frame and name it.
Number of observations we'll use the group by method again only this time we'll use count instead of
mean
let's also calculate the proportions of these segments.
After all we'd like to know how much of the whole population each cluster represents will store this
information in a column called proportion of observations.
It's equal to the number of observations column divided by the sum of all observations done running
the code.
We get a data frame with the relevant information.
Now that we've already named our segments we can add this information to our table.
Let's rename the segments segment zero is now well off.
One is fewer opportunities.
Two is the standard segment and the last group is career focused OK.
Let's run the code
we can see that there are 263 individuals or 13 percent of the entire data in the well off segment.
So this is the smallest segment the largest segment is the third one standard comprised of 35 percent
of all individuals.
In between we find being career focused and fewer opportunities containing 570 and 462 persons respectively.
Amazing.
As a last step we'd like to visualize our segmented data.
Please note that we'll be plotting the raw data rather than the standardized data.
The only difference would be that this time we'll have the segments we use our original data frame segmentation
K Means and plot each individual point and its corresponding cluster in order to do that.
Let's first add the segment names to this data frame as well.
So far we only have the K Means labels attribute which has numbers from 0 to 3 for each of the 4 corresponding
clusters will map these to the segment names.
To achieve this we can employ the map method and use the mapping convention we established earlier.
All right let's add a new column called labels then we take our segment K Means column and map it to
the strings for the segments names.
It's the same one we used in our previous table now.
Finally we can create our plot
we'll create a scatter plot of income and age and we'll use C born again moreover we can actually use
the segments as colors so hue is D F segmentation K Means labels will use the same color palette.
As for hierarchical clustering green red cyan and magenta.
Finally it's always important to set a title for our graph.
And let's take a look at our plot okay.
What do we observe we can see the green segment well-off is clearly separated as it is highest in both
age and income.
Unfortunately the other three are grouped together so it's harder to get more insight just by looking
at the plot we can conclude that K Means did a decent job at separating our data into clusters.
However the result is far from perfect.
So we're interested to see how we can get even more out of it.
So in the next section we'll combine k means with principal component analysis and try to get a better
result.
See you next time.
And thanks for watching.